ABSTRACT:
A Personal Digital Assistant , also called AI assistant or Digital voice assistant, is
an application program that understands natural language voice commands and completes tasks
for the user. Some virtual assistants are able to interpret human speech and respond via
synthesized voices. Users can ask their assistants questions, control home automation devices
and media playback via voice, and manage other basic tasks such as email, to-do lists, and
calendars with verbal commands. Virtual Assistants are software programs that help you ease
your day to day tasks, such as showing weather report, creating reminders, making shopping
lists etc. They can take commands via text (online chat bots) or by voice.

OBJECTIVES :
Many devices we use every day utilize voice assistants. They’re on our smartphones and
inside smart speakers in our homes. Many mobile apps and operating systems use
them. Additionally, certain technology in cars, as well as in retail, education, healthcare, and
telecommunications environments, can be operated by voices. Our MAIN OBJECTIVE is to reduce the workload of the User by assisting him Virtually
and completing his tasks intended with the help of our Virtual Assistant. Personal assistant
software improves user productivity by managing routine tasks of the user and by providing
information from online sources to the user. 

SCOPE :
Much of what virtual assistants do now are basic skills, such as retrieving data and basic
computation. As natural language processing (NLP) continues to mature, virtual assistants will
improve their response capabilities, allowing for their use to become more widespread and
complex. Also, as machine learning progresses, we may see virtual assistants become smarter
and begin to learn and predict customer needs. The user experience will become much better, making interactions richer and more natural. Their ability to process information on-device will open a whole new range of opportunities. All in all, virtual assistants will become more complex ecosystems that can support you in
multiple areas of your everyday lives.

MODULE :
Python is an OOPs (Object Oriented Programming) based, high level, interpreted
programming language. It is a robust, highly useful language focused on rapid application
development (RAD). Python helps in easy writing and execution of codes. Python can
implement the same logic with as much as 1/5 th code as compared to other OOPs languages. 

PACKAGES USED : 
 subprocess
 playsound
 twilio.rest  Client  clint.textui  progress
 ecapture
 pywhatkit  ecapture as ec
 bs4
 BeautifulSoup
 email.message EmailMessage
 win32com.client as wincl  urllib.request  urlopen
 googletrans
 gtts
 wolframalpha
 pyttsx3
 tkinter  json
 random
 operator  speech_recognition as sr  datetime
 psutil  pyautogui  wikipedia
 webbrowser  os
 winshell  pyjokes
 feedparser  smtplib
 ctypes
 time
 requests
 shutil

CONCLUSION:
Through this voice assistant, we have automated various services using a single
line command. It eases most of the tasks of the user like searching the web, retrieving weather
forecast details, vocabulary help and related queries. We aim to make this project a complete
server assistant and make it smart enough to act as a replacement for a general server
administration.
